Assignment #1: Expectations for this Semester


1. Introduction (100-150 words)
          I am Jasmine Manansala who is a Bachelor of Science in Information Systems 3. I have been quite exposed to many coding languages although I am not very expert on them. Programming languages like C++, JavaScript, and other front-end development languages like HTML, CSS, and some of React. I am not good at using backend development tools/languages as I have no background on studying them myself or from other professors so I can say that I do not have any experiences on using Node.js or any backend development.
          I do have, on the other hand, the passion for solving problems, troubleshooting, and the ability to adapt to the issues given to me. It may take quite a while but it exhilarates me that from my own efforts, I was able to solve problems on my own, especially with coding.


2. Course Expectations (200-300 words)
          In this course, I low-key want to pursue this career because I was inspired by my classmate who is already a full-stack developer in a company in BGC. I want to be able to understand backend development tools too because seeing the progress of my classmate and his skills made me curious even more about his job and work about front and especially backend development tools. Even if it may not be the case, I still want to be able to learn a few things from this course not just academically but also for my possible future career regarding backend tools like Node.js and more. I want to be able to gain a solid foundation and practical experiences in backend tools and databases.
          I am hoping to build and manage APIs and be able to use the Node.js that we are pursuing in this course. I think learning Node.js and Express will be necessary to learn server-side development and understand databases like MySQL and MongoDB.
          From my experiences on static websites so far, backend development will help as a way in enabling dynamic and more functional applications. By studying this course, I will be able to manage data efficiently, improve security, and enhance user experience. And so, I am expecting many in this course like problem-solving skills regarding backend issues, being knowledgeable in working with servers, and being able to build projects on both front-end and back-end functionalities.


3. Challenges and Areas for Improvement (150-200 words)
          One of the weaknesses that I have is working with databases, specifically with queries and understanding how to structure data in an efficient manner. Since I have very little knowledge about backend development, I also have trouble making APIs and working with server-side logic. Authentication, security, and error handling are something that I need to work on in order to be good at them since they are fundamental features that make applications secure and dependable. Debugging server-side issues is more complex than front-end issues, so I would like to become more comfortable with debugging server-side issues.
          To address these weaknesses, I will work regularly by creating small backend projects and applying what I have learned by hands-on coding exercises. I will watch videos online, read manuals, and make use of resources available. Asking for help from my professors and peers will also be a crucial element in understanding complicated things. I will, in addition, try to break complicated topics into parts in order to learn effectively. By being consistent and a willing learner, I hope to improve my backend development skills and be more confident in using databases, APIs, and error handling.


4. Expectations from the Instructor (100-150 words)
          I am expecting my instructor to be able to explain things clearly and structure lessons that will help us understand backend development lessons. Since I am new to these concepts, I would appreciate a step-by-step approach for me to clearly understand the concepts especially in the case of databases, building APIs, and authentication and security. It would help me, and maybe us, if complex topics are broken down into simpler contexts.
          I am a practical learner so having real-world examples, and interactive discussions would be great. If you can offer some extra resources like tutorials, documentation, and suggested projects for self studies, that would be really great for my learning and maybe even for my co-classmates. The explanations for debugging codes would also enhance my problem-solving skills even more and through these, I think I will be able to learn the knowledge I need in this course.


5. Final Thoughts (Optional, 50-100 words)
          I have no other thoughts other than the things I said above. Overall, I just really want to be able to gain a solid foundation about backend development. It may not be my future career but being able to learn stuff is good for myself too. So I want to make the most out of this course in developing my skills.