Reflections

About My Role:
My role as an SQA or as Software Quality Assurance was actually an unexpected job. I was originally assigned as a 
support developer to Sydney John and Daniel Latina while Bactol being the only SQA. I accepted the job and in the 
end, for my personal growth, it went great for me. Because I learned so many things about what SQAs do in actual 
projects. Although it is not as proficient as actual SQAs do in their job, being exposed to this role actually 
made me think about my future career; that I can also think about doing this kind of job in the future. 
I contributed by writing documentations on the errors the developers had in their websites. From taking notes 
on personal notes to recording or taking a screenshot on the errors so that the developers can fix it. 
But since this is my first time being in an SQA role, the challenges I faced was not being knowledgeable on 
some documents that I need to cover and do. I had to search and ask my classmates on how to do such a task so 
that I can accomplish my job properly. In the end, I learned many aspects from being an SQA and I still want 
to continue doing this for the final semester and to my capstone project, which I am glad that I was able 
to be SQA again in our capstone project.



Teamwork Experience:
My experience working as part of the SQA team is that, I did not actually have many tasks at first but when the 
development and implementation started, I started doing mine also. As I was checking errors, I think things 
quite went well because I was able to check errors that the developers had. Things that I could have improved 
on the other hand is that, I should have noticed things like color schemes and other layouts. It means that 
I wasn’t able to notice ALL things, which I think is a growth for me as an SQA. I preferred myself to be able 
to notice and overthink things being an SQA, after the panelists have noticed things which I wasn't able to. 
I could also improve how I can document the test cases and scenarios better too because I had kind of crammed 
my documentation. This semester, I will be doing my tasks on time so that I will not be burdening myself in the end.

In terms of the team communication, delegation of tasks, and collaboration, we were quite able to achieve our 
goal with little bits of mistakes on each own. The UI/UX had bits of errors in their figma, the Project Manager(s) 
had quite missed some documents when the day of the presentation had come. They were too focused on their own and 
their presentation. The developer was not able to fix all errors on time, but I think, the collaboration as a 
whole on each job was able to achieve the goal in the end. There were only little loopholes that could be 
improved but the teamwork was still there. I am satisfied so far on how the team is going on with a goal of 
improving more through the shared goals we all have.   



Personal Growth and Discipline:
As a Software Quality Assurance, I would like to improve my attention to details even more. I was quite confident 
at first that I was able to notice things but when I heard comments from the panelists, I realized that I need to 
search more, and notice more details to properly help my developers in fixing errors and giving clients 
a rich user experience.


